Shareholder Momentum, and Research Analysts View Templates:

Designed the template workbooks and PPT as per business requirements.

Created a separate DLL for each template.

Wrote classes that get called when the template needs to be generated.

These classes contain the code that pull data from the database and populate the sheet with this data, with a few minor pre and post processing steps to ensure that the report generated is as required.

Document merge and generation:

Created this class, which contains the methods for generating the merged Excel document, and also methods for generating PPT and PDF documents.

Was closely involved in deciding the database table structure for storing the metadata for PPT generation.

Created the PPT template, which would be used to generate the PPT from the previously generated Excel document.

Issues found and resolved:

Found a new method to generate the merged Excel document, which avoids a very important issue of cell references.

Found two bugs in the Aspose Cells API, which were causing an erroneous output of the merged excel document in the final step. I coordinated with the Aspose team, informed them about these issues, and obtained the updated DLL from the Aspose team.

Found one bug in the Aspose Cells API, which was causing wrong PPT and PDF output, about which I again informed the Aspose team, and got the DLL updated again.

Techniques and technologies used:

C# .NET and SQL Database
The entire application is built on top of the .NET framework, and using SQL server as the database. 

Aspose Smart Markers
Smart markers are placeholders in a template document, using which the appropriate data is populated in the cells.
It is the part that ties the code, database, and worksheet together.

Stored Procedures in database
Stored procedures that return data that is to be populated in the worksheets, PPTs and PDF.

Excel:
Named Ranges used to define the dynamic cell range for the charts.
Conditional Formatting used to format the cells according to value in that cell, as well as adjacent cells.

PowerPoint: 
Placeholders, positions and sizes of components to be inserted into the slides.
Database fields for storing this metadata.
Charts inserted as images

Overall learnings:

Various new technologies like Aspose, .NET

Features and intricacies of Excel.

Source Control – TFS.

How to make use of the Visual Studio IDE and its debugger, SQL Server 2014 Management Studio.

Object oriented application development: how to write enterprise, production level code.

